Every time I meet a weird person. Somebody to me,
heroism is also taking a risk to, uh,
rebel against mediocrity. Yeah. Like in,
in the most simplest of ways, like the, the license address,
like taking a risk to break the little bit of rule that nobody will know about
to take that little bit of a, a leap of like that,
that little protest against the bureaucracy. Well.
Like that Nazi guard conformity, where he just spoke out. He's like, Hey lady,
but that's a big.
One. Oh, that's a sure, sure.
I mean like literally at the line at Starbucks or something like that,
like even in the tiniest of ways,
when I see people just like, it's almost like that little,
like glimer in their eye, a wink, like we're in this together. This there's,
there's all this conformity all around us.
That's at a different time could have been Nazi. Germany could have been, uh,
Stalin and Soviet union. Sure. We're in this together.
We're going to rebel against that conformity by
just taking the risk, that little bit of risk against mediocrity. I don't know.
And that, and then once again, I see this in companies too,
when I see the mediocrity, um, I see this, you know, I used to work at Google.
I see it in Google. When the companies grow that mediocrity is overwhelming.
The P Peter principle, right? The Peter principle. Yeah. Yeah.
My hope is that all of us have the possibility for that glimmer, that, um,
that risk taking the, the leap of faith, whatever the heck,
that is the leap out of the ordinary, out of the conformity,
out of the mediocrity.
So, so this is where you and I disagree. I, I think, think most,
a lot of people do are not capable.
Of that. They're accustomed to it. I don't know if they're not capable. No.
I, I, my POS, I understand your position. I'm disagreeing with it.
I'm saying I do not think they're capable.
I think a lot of people effectively don't have souls.
They do not have a conscience in this sense where they're going to look at an
issue, bring their are critical thinking and say, all right,
I am going to do the right thing. Although I'm taking a risk.
Don't do you think thinking is involved or is it just taking that leap?
There there's something about that basic human spirit.
Forget the thinking part it's it is just saying like,
I'll take that risk. The taking that adventure,
the same thing out people to explore the seas, you know, the, the,
uh, throughout human civilization, explore land, explore the oceans like that,
explore exploration. Like we've done stuff this way, all this time.
I'm gonna take a leap. And that comes outta the nowhere. Seemingly a.
Lot of those people are the heroes, but don't don't think that's universal.
I re there was, I'm gonna use a very go example.
There was a show called scare tactics, which was basically a candid camera,
but they would scare people like they'd have vampires, whatever,
and hidden camera and people's reactions. And so a lot of,
but sometimes it, the prank didn't work out like they expected.
So there was one where they were hiring some, the people who were the marks,
you know, the contestants, so to speak was, would hire to be a security guard.
Okay. And you have to watch this, this factory overnight and you get paid.
And what the setup was,
some people were breaking out of the factory in the middle of the night,
like in rags. And they were saying they were keeping us prisoner here,
like blah, blah, and just watched the person reaction to this.
And there was one security guard where there,
he basically forced them back into the building. And there're like,
there were us 24, 7, we're getting beat. And he's like, I'm here to do a job,
get back in there. And you watch this.
And it never even enters his head to be like, something's wrong here.
He was given his orders, he's following his orders. And to me,
that is not uncommon. And that person, although they look like you and I, uh,
uh, there's something essentially human missing with them now very quickly.
The reaction is, well, it's one step from there to Nazi.
I don't think it's something that it,
I'm not saying this person should be killed,
but I'm just saying to expect that every human being has
the capacity to have that defiance, especially at across their own life,
that I think is not realistic. Uh, and I, but at the same time,
I feel like an octopus on the eighth hand, it is those few of us.
Or if you wanna include me in this who do make these tiny
little protests who look the other way, when someone is hungry,
who's stealing food from the supermarket, right? It's like, all right, like I,
I, I'm gonna pretend.
I didn't see anything that those little elements of heroism are what
move human humanity forward and demonstrate the
validity of the human experience. Uh,
whereas everyone else is kind of like seen, I think.
Almost everybody in the world can derive deep meaning and pleasure from having
done those courageous acts.
And I also think they have the capacity to do them to discover that meaning and
happiness.
So you're the cynic then? Why aren't they doing it?
They haven't gotten a chance to, like, I've never, uh,
to L S D or a DMT.
You haven't gotten the chance to try this amazing journey,
which is taking the risk that's rebellion.
Because as you just said, two minutes ago,
everyone has that chance every day to do the right.
Thing. And we have the chance to do a lot of things.
And we don't realize there's a lot of stuff right in front of our knows that we
don't realize, right, is you have to kind of wake up to it. And sometimes, uh,
you, you need the catalyst.
There needs to be some kind of thing that happens that wakes you up.
That the fact that most people don't
take the small acts of rebellion doesn't mean they don't have the capacity to
both do so. And to derive a lot of meaning from it,
then it's a,
a discussion about how to create societies that get more and more people to be
free actors and free thinkers. That's, that's the question. And that,
that probably leads us into a discussion of AISM and so on. But yeah,
I just think we are very young as a species.
We're trying to figure out how to get ourselves to first be
collaborative, but at the same time, be free spirits. And I think both of the,
those are within human nature for.
Most of us.
I think another big concern is that there's enormous disincentives
and this is Michael malice speaking. Yeah. Uh,
for human beings to be kind and for tenderness. And I think,
uh, especially when you're young, you know what I mean? When you're immature,
a lot of times some will reach out to you with kindness or vulnerability,
and you think it's funny to kind of dunk the head under water in a pool or
something like that. Yeah. And when you get older, you look, I, I, there,
you know, there's this one, uh, example of this, this was a,
this was in the nineties and there was a woman. She became a like, uh,
like stripper or something like that or whatever it was.
But she had amazing body. She was just gorgeous. And the show was,
she was talking about how, when she was in high school, she was bullied a lot.
And that there was this football player. He messed with her every single day.
And like at one day she even threw pickles in her hair and her hair smelled like
pickles and her was laughing and her, and this really screwed her up. I mean,
up to that show and they took her backstage and brought out the football player.
And now he's a dad and a regular dude. And he's like,
do you know what they're like? Do you know why you're here? And he's like, no.
And they're like, oh, what you like in high school? I was like, oh,
it was kind of a jock, you know, bully, whatever.
And they brought her out and he didn't even remember her really. And she was,
starts crying about the pickles and whatever, and this,
something that affected her for like 20 years.
And I've never seen a clear example of someone who wanted to kill themselves.
And this guy, like the guilt on his face,
and he's looking at her and he's desperate to be like,
what can I do to take your pain away to make it better? Uh,
like, I, I, I,
he was just crippled by it cuz he knew there's nothing he could do.
He knew he a hundred percent did the wrong thing.
He knew he did the wrong thing. Unthinkingly. Like you can imagine, you know,
I gotta screw over this lady to feed my family. You know that that's fine. You,
but for, it was at the time it meant nothing to him.
So of course he didn't remember mm-hmm <affirmative> and he was just paralyzed
by this sense of crippling guilt.
One of the reasons I always tried to do the right thing is said,
because I'm inherently good person, which I do not think I am.
I don't think anyone is inherently good,
but because I will feel guilty about it for a very, very long time.
Because if you do the wrong thing, this is a very canoe idea.
If you do the wrong thing to a good person, that's really,
really bad.
Cuz what kind of person are you in the same way that everyone can be?
That guy who takes someone out for their birthday,
everyone has that ability for someone who did the wrong thing to someone who's a
normal person. And do you want to be that guy as well? My friend, uh, um,
Stein, he's a, um, uh, big gold, uh, excuse me, Bitcoin person,
my biography, ego and hubris is like $500.
Now in eBay it's like hard to find came out in 2006.
And he had told me that, you know, you can get it on, on torrent.
It's it's downloadable. And I'm like, oh, I thought if you're my friend,
you know, you'd wanna buy it at the time. It was not $500 I should or you,
and it goes, I did buy it.
I'm just telling you that you could also get it for free this information that
you might wanna use. And I felt I'm like,
I snapped at this kid who was doing right by me.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and I felt it just stuck in my head. I'm like, you're an.
Yeah. And then years later, I apologize. He didn't had no memory of this at all.
I'm glad to be able to reiterate the apology again. But you know, this is,
you know, a lot of times I'm extremely aggressive on Twitter and in other venues
I always try to, and maybe I fail and that's my moral failing.
Always do it as a counter attack. If you're gonna start going personal,
if you're gonna start being aggressive against an individual,
I'm not going to necessarily hold back when I reciprocate.
And it's something that is very common on social media,
but I don't think it is normal. I just,
because a lot of this is you were talking about the,
the quiet little rebellion just because everyone else around you thinks it's
okay to just go up to people and attack them in the most personal ways.
IM prompted cuz of their views.
Really just take a step back and realize what you're engaging with. Now.
If that's the fight they want, then you know,
my Soviet cruelty could come out and that's kind of why I don't drink cuz I do
enjoy it. Yeah. But the same time be aware of what you're doing. And, and,
and again, this goes back to Kamoo um,
sense that conscience really is what makes us human beings. Yeah.
Well that's the thing I was saying.
I don't think most people think in terms of conscience, they don't think it,
they, we are taught. This is that this is that, that creeping cynicism that, oh,
grow up when you're an adult, you have to make sacrifices, blah, blah, blah.
And even if I buy that for a second, which I don't,
but if I have to make sacrifices,
sometimes that doesn't mean it's okay for me to make a sacrifice of my values
in this moment.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> if I have to maybe be at work and my boss is a jerk to me
and calls me names, I have to be humiliated, but I gotta put food in the plate.
That doesn't mean it's okay. Later if I'm at a party and I'm just, you know,
extremely ends up to someone for no reason.